>> Melkey: Sweet, so with that created,
we can actually hop back
into our WorkoutHandler.
So if you wanna go into
the WorkoutHandler,
this is in the API package.
When we were querying these functions,
we got preliminary kind of responses
of created a workout, and we show that
we can parse the slug from a query
that we are hitting using Chi, right?
We're using the params
workout ID right up here.
So we're gonna kind of
up this up a little bit.
We are no longer just going to return
these random things, we're actually
gonna try and communicate through our
client, to our API, to our database.
I'm gonna start with our handle,
create workout down here.
So right now it should have
just a simple print statement.
Go ahead and just nuke that.
We no longer need that.
I'm gonna start off by creating
a variable to store the workout, okay?
So we can do var workout.
It's going to be of type,
store.workout, like so.
And I'm gonna decode this.
We're gonna declare an error,
and this is gonna be JSON.
So try to see if this is brought in.
It's a standard package in Go,
the JSON package.
I'm gonna json.NewDecoder, okay?
And we're gonna decode the r.Body.
And just a quick reminder,
r is the pointer to our HTTP request
that we're getting from the caller.
This could be client, this could
be whatever it is, just us testing
a different terminal, but the contents of
the request are going to be in r.Body.
And what we're essentially doing here
is we are using this JSON package to
first of all, create a strut for
us that's going to parse the r.Body.
And we're gonna parse the contents
of r.Body into our workout here.
So do .Decode, and
then parse in the address of workout.
>> Melkey: Now, the reason this
works is because if we go back to
our store.workout,
we have our JSON tags here.
JSON ID, title description, duration
minutes, calories burned, and entries.
So when we expect r.Body,
the body of the request,
it's going to have these JSON
fields with the appropriate values.
But it allows us to easily decode
that content into our workout here,
our variable that we declared just above.
Let's go ahead and handle this error
cuz our compilers matter to us.
We can do if error does not equal to nil.
We can do a few things.
First, we're gonna quickly just do
a fmt.PrintLn, I'm gonna say error, okay?
This is not permanent, this is just for
us as we build this out, okay?
So if there's any unforeseen errors,
we'll see this in our terminal
that's running our Go server, okay?
But this is not really
a good way to handle errors,
I'll show you how we can improve
this in just a little bit.
But I'm a fan of, let's get something
working that does a preliminary job and
then we can improve on it.
So with that, we now also have to
handle the error for the caller, okay?
So that first error statement is for us
to see what's going down in our backend.
This is to respond to the caller
that tells them, hey,
I couldn't process your request.
So we can pass in the ResponseWriter w,
and
the message could be failed
to create workout, all right?
And then the status code.
So we can do
http.StatusInternalServerError,
also known as 500.
Once you have that, please make sure
you add the return, cuz if you don't,
your client's gonna see the error message,
but
then you're gonna continue
on with your function.
Which is something you definitely
do not want to handle.
Missing return series is pretty common,
it happens, so just make sure you add it.
Now, the cool part is, I have a question,
if anyone has the answer
right away let me know.
But right now how do we have access from
the scope of this function, from the scope
of this package, or API package page,
how can we possibly hit the database?
>> Speaker 2: Through the app struct.
>> Melkey: Through the app struct?
That's a pretty good answer, but
it's not necessarily the app struct.
It's actually gonna be through
our WorkoutHandler struct, okay?
So right now, when we first created,
I purposely left it empty
because I wanted to demonstrate how we
can add on to this truck to do things for
us that can kind of connect with
other parts of our application.
So here, the WorkoutHandler is
just simply the handler for
us to create these methods on.
But now what we can do is, If we go up
here, we can open up this struct and
we can include a new WorkoutStore,
all right?
Which can be of type store.WorkoutStore.
And I wanna emphasize
this part a little bit.
WorkoutStore is what?
Does anyone remember?
>> Speaker 3: The database.
>> Melkey: It's the interface.
>> Melkey: The WorkoutStore
is the interface, right?
It's right here.
And this is kind of the highlight I want
to incorporate when we first created this.
From the perspective of our API layer,
all it knows is this interface.
It doesn't know about our
PostgresWorkoutStore or
any of the methods and
logic that we created on it.
And why does this matter?
Is again, if for one, whatever reason
you have to swap your database,
you have to of course always make
the changes in your database layer.
If you're gonna swap from Postgres
to like Mongo or something else,
that work has to be done.
But from the perspective
of your API layer,
your API is not gonna
have to change at all.
As long as your migration from
one database to a new one adheres
to your interface,
your API layer can be left untouched.
Which I think is a very powerful thing,
it's decoupling the database.
And, yeah, we're gonna see how
we can fully leverage that.
So now that we have this struct, we have
to also modify our constructor, okay?
So now WorkoutHandler is gonna also
accept a WorkoutStore argument,
which if type store.WorkoutStore,
all right?
And then here in the return, you can
just put wWorkoutStore is WorkoutStore,
like so.
>> Speaker 4: Can you, like in JavaScript,
I think you can just use the variable
if there's the same variable name and
property name and
variable name that you're passing to it.
>> Melkey: You mean like
kind of deconstruct it like-
>> Speaker 4: Just a shortcut to-
>> Melkey: Like that?
>> Speaker 4: Yeah.
>> Melkey: Yeah, you can do that.
You can do that.
I like to be very explicit even
though I don't have to be.
Okay.
I think it'll also do the same with
like structs and declaring structs.
They're not to be explicitly declared, but
I'm gonna be as explicit I
can throughout this course.
And typically, I think it's a good
pattern, if someone looks at your code and
maybe they're not familiar with that,
to be explicit, but
that's neither here nor there.
>> Speaker 5: Is that JSON decoder
the same or similar to unmarshaling?
>> Melkey: Yeah, it's very similar.
They have the decoder.
They are very similar,
you can kind of use one versus the other.
On marshaling, from what I've seen,
is better used for internal,
kind of within your own application.
If you're gonna have to do something
with JSON, you kind of craft it and
then send it to maybe another package or
something.
The NewDecoder is typically what's seen
when you are accepting json payloads
through HTTP or something like that.
But I do believe you can
use them interchangeably,
I just think the NewDecoder
is a bit more designed for
handling requests over server calls.
All right, so now that we have a bit of
our structure set up, what we're going to
do is create a new variable called
WreatedWorkout, and in error.
And here we're gonna use wh, and
you should see now a new field called
WorkoutStore, and
then we can click CreateWorkout, okay?
And we can pass in our workout like so.
And this CreateWorkout is, in fact, the
CreateWorkout function we just created in
the new PostgresWorkoutStore, but
because we're using an interface that
satisfies the method signatures,
doesn't really matter.
All right, and now, as always,
let's make sure we handle that error.
So if error does not equal to nil, let's
just quickly do a fmt.PrintLn for us so
we can keep that error.
Remember, this is not
a permanent solution.
And you go ahead, you can just copy and
paste it just to save yourself some time.
The HTTP error message from above.
Don't forget the return.
And then we wanna kind of remind
the caller, or tell the caller,
hey, we accepted your request.
So what we can do here here is w header.
We're going to set a field.
I'm gonna type Content-Type like so,
,application/json.
And at the end,
we can do json.NewEncoder, okay?
So new encoder returns a new encoder that
writes to w, which is our response writer.
And here we can pass in w,
and we're gonna encode what we want,
which is the created workout.
So this pattern here is a pretty
powerful pattern that allows us
to have more flexibility with different
quote unquote, layers of our application.
Here we're demonstrating the API
layer to our database layer, but
you can imagine this goes beyond the scope
of those two preliminary things.
You can have multiple different layers,
especially if you have specific packages
that are doing microservices and they have
a struct and they have function calls.
You can kind of mess around
with how you handle and
orchestrate the different
handlers across your application.